fix(python,docs): add examples on how to use python sdk (#498)
matter-labs/zksync-web-era-docs: docs/api/python/getting-started.md

# Getting started

In this guide we will demonstrate how to:

1. Connect to the zkSync network.
2. Deposit assets from Ethereum into zkSync.
3. Check balances.
4. Transfer and withdraw funds.
5. Deploy a smart contract.

> 6. Deploy a smart contract with constructor and make interaction with contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Deploy a smart contract with constructor and interact with the contract.
```

# Getting started

In this guide we will demonstrate how to:

1. Connect to the zkSync network.
2. Deposit assets from Ethereum into zkSync.
3. Check balances.
4. Transfer and withdraw funds.
5. Deploy a smart contract.
6. Deploy a smart contract with constructor and interact with the contract.
7. Deploy a smart contract with dependency.
8. Deploy a smart contract using create2.
9. Deploy a smart contract with dependency using create2. 

> #### Requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Requirements
```

sdk = ZkSyncBuilder.build("https://testnet.era.zksync.dev")
```

## Examples

> Full code of all examples are available [here](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/tree/master/examples). Examples are configured to interact with `zkSync` and `Goerli` test networks.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full code for all examples is available [here](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/tree/master/examples). Examples are configured to interact with `zkSync` and `Goerli` test networks.  
```

> Full code of all examples are available [here](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/tree/master/examples). Examples are configured to interact with `zkSync` and `Goerli` test networks.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full code for all examples is available [here](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/tree/master/examples). Examples are configured to interact with `zkSync` and `Goerli` test networks.  
```

### Deposit funds

> This is an example of how to deposit assets from Ethereum network (L1) to zkSync network (L2):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of how to deposit assets from Ethereum Era network (L1) to zkSync network (L2):
```

                                                                        poll_latency=10)

    # return deposit transaction hashes from L1 and L2 networks
    return l1_tx_receipt['transactionHash'].hex(), l2_tx_receipt['transactionHash'].hex()

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Get the private key from OS environment variables
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Set a provider
    ZKSYNC_PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"
    ETH_PROVIDER = "https://rpc.ankr.com/eth_goerli"

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(ZKSYNC_PROVIDER)

    # Connect to Ethereum network
    eth_web3 = Web3(Web3.HTTPProvider(ETH_PROVIDER))

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Create Ethereum provider
    eth_provider = EthereumProvider(zk_web3, eth_web3, account)

    # Perform the deposit
    amount = 0.01
    l1_tx_hash, l2_tx_hash = deposit(zk_web3, eth_web3, eth_provider, account, amount)

    print(f"L1 transaction: {l1_tx_hash}")
    print(f"L2 transaction: {l2_tx_hash}")
```

### Check balance

> Here is an example how to check balance on zkSync network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Here is an example how to check balance on zkSync network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of how to check a balance on zkSync Era.
```

        max_priority_fee_per_gas=100000000,
    )

    # ZkSync transaction gas estimation
    estimate_gas = zk_web3.zksync.eth_estimate_gas(tx_func_call.tx)
    print(f"Fee for transaction is: {estimate_gas * gas_price}")

    # Convert transaction to EIP-712 format
    tx_712 = tx_func_call.tx712(estimate_gas)

    # Sign message & encode it
    signed_message = signer.sign_typed_data(tx_712.to_eip712_struct())

    # Encode signed message
    msg = tx_712.encode(signed_message)

    # Transfer ETH
    tx_hash = zk_web3.zksync.send_raw_transaction(msg)
    print(f"Transaction hash is : {tx_hash.hex()}")

    # Wait for transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )
    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")

    # Return the transaction hash of the transfer
    return tx_hash

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

>     # Get account object by providing from private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Get account object by providing private key
```

Reviewer: if from = 'from' or sender, be explicit about it ..

    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Create Ethereum provider
    eth_provider = EthereumProvider(zk_web3, eth_web3, account)

    amount = 0.01

    # Perform the withdrawal
    if not len(WITHDRAW_TX_HASH):
        withdraw_tx_hash = withdraw(zk_web3, account, amount)
        print(f"Withdraw transaction hash: {withdraw_tx_hash}")
        print("Wait for withdraw transaction to be finalized on L2 network (11-24 hours)")
        print("Read more about withdrawal delay: https://era.zksync.io/docs/dev/troubleshooting/withdrawal-delay.html")
        print("When withdraw transaction is finalized, execute this script again "
              "with WITHDRAW_TX_HASH environment variable set")
        exit()

    # Finalize withdraw of previous successful withdraw transaction
    eth_tx_receipt = finalize_withdraw(zk_web3, eth_provider, WITHDRAW_TX_HASH)

    fee = eth_tx_receipt["gasUsed"] * eth_tx_receipt["effectiveGasPrice"]
    print(f"Finalize withdraw transaction: {eth_tx_receipt['transactionHash'].hex()}")
    print(f"Effective ETH withdraw (paid fee): { Web3.from_wei(Web3.to_wei(amount, 'ether') - fee, 'ether')}")

```

> ### Smart Contract Deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Smart contract deployment
```

With zkSync, you can deploy a contract using the create method, by simply building the contract into a binary format and deploying it to the zkSync network.

> There are 3 solidity smart contracts that will be deployed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: looks like 4?

> - [Storage](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/storage/Storage.sol): contract without constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Storage](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/storage/Storage.sol): Contract without constructor.
```

> - [Incrementer](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/incrementer/Incrementer.sol): contract with constructor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Incrementer](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/incrementer/Incrementer.sol): Contract with constructor.
```

> - [Demo](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/demo/Demo.sol): contract that has dependency to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Demo](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/demo/Demo.sol): Contract that has dependency to 
```

[Foo](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/demo/Foo.sol) contract.

> There is a [user guide](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/README.md) on how to compile Solidity smart contract using `zksolc` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a [user guide](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/README.md) on how to compile Solidity smart contracts using `zksolc` 
```

> compiler. `zksolc` compiler generates `combined.json` file that contains bytecode and ABI of smart contract. Those files are used in following examples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compiler. `zksolc` compiler generates a `combined.json` file that contains the bytecode and ABI of a smart contract. Those files are used in the following examples. 
```

> compiler. `zksolc` compiler generates `combined.json` file that contains bytecode and ABI of smart contract. Those files are used in following examples. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compiler. `zksolc` compiler generates a `combined.json` file that contains the bytecode and ABI of a smart contract. Those files are used in the following examples. 
```

#### Deploy a contract

> To deploy the contract, contract ABI is needed for calling its methods in the standard web3 way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy the contract, the contract ABI is needed for calling methods in the standard Web3 way.
```

    # Encode signed message
    msg = tx_712.encode(signed_message)

    # Deploy contract
    tx_hash = zk_web3.zksync.send_raw_transaction(msg)

    # Wait for deployment contract transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )

    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")
    contract_address = tx_receipt["contractAddress"]

    print(f"Deployed contract address: {contract_address}")

    # Return the contract deployed address
    return contract_address

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/storage/build/combined.json")

    # Perform contract deployment
    deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path)

```

> ### Deploy a contract with constructor and make interaction with it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy a contract with constructor and interact with it
```

> In some cases, you would need to get the contract address before deploying it. Use `PrecomputeContractDeployer` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, you need to get the contract address before deploying it. Use `PrecomputeContractDeployer` 
```

> to get precomputed contract address. Incrementer contract does not need precomputed address, but it is used in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to get the precomputed contract address. The Incrementer contract does not need a precomputed address, but it is used in
```

> to get precomputed contract address. Incrementer contract does not need precomputed address, but it is used in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to get the precomputed contract address. The Incrementer contract does not need a precomputed address, but it is used in
```

> this example to check does precomputed address match with deployed address. This example also shows how to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this example to check that the precomputed address matches the deployed address. This example also shows how to
```

    # Wait for deployment contract transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )

    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")
    contract_address = tx_receipt["contractAddress"]
    print(f"contract address: {contract_address}")

    # Check does precompute address match with deployed address
    if precomputed_address.lower() != contract_address.lower():
        raise RuntimeError("Precomputed contract address does now match with deployed contract address")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/demo/build/combined.json")

    # Perform contract deployment
    deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path)

```

> ### Deploy a smart contract using create2 method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy a smart contract using the `create2` method
```

### Withdraw funds (Native coins)

```python

> import os

Author: It is split into 2 scripts: withdraw and finalize withdrawal.

    """
    zks_receipt = zksync_provider.zksync.wait_finalized(withdraw_tx_hash)

    # Check if withdraw transaction was successful
    if not zks_receipt["status"]:
        raise RuntimeError("Withdraw transaction on L2 network failed")

    # Execute finalize withdraw
    tx_receipt = ethereum_provider.finalize_withdrawal(zks_receipt["transactionHash"])

    # Check if finalize withdraw transaction was successful
    if not tx_receipt["status"]:
        raise RuntimeError("Finalize withdraw transaction L1 network failed")
    return tx_receipt

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Get the private key from OS environment variables
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))
    WITHDRAW_TX_HASH = HexBytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("WITHDRAW_TX_HASH"))

    # Set a provider
    ZKSYNC_PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"
    ETH_PROVIDER = "https://rpc.ankr.com/eth_goerli"

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(ZKSYNC_PROVIDER)

    # Connect to Ethereum network
    eth_web3 = Web3(Web3.HTTPProvider(ETH_PROVIDER))
    eth_web3.middleware_onion.inject(geth_poa_middleware, layer=0)

>     # Get account object by providing from private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Get account object by providing private key of the sender?
```
I don't know if you mean this but "providing from private key" is misleading

Author: `Get account object by providing private key of the sender` is a correct.

Reviewer: Thank you :)

```

### Smart contract deployment

With zkSync, you can deploy a contract using the create method, by simply building the contract into a binary format and deploying it to the zkSync network.

- [Storage](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/storage/Storage.sol): Contract without constructor.
- [Incrementer](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/incrementer/Incrementer.sol): Contract with constructor.
- [Demo](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/demo/Demo.sol): Contract that has a dependency on 
[Foo](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/solidity/demo/Foo.sol) contract.

There is a [user guide](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-python/blob/master/examples/README.md) on how to compile Solidity smart contracts using `zksolc` 
compiler. `zksolc` compiler generates a `combined.json` file that contains the bytecode and ABI of a smart contract. Those files are used in the following examples. 

#### Deploy a contract

To deploy the contract, the contract ABI is needed for calling methods in the standard Web3 way.

> `ConctractEncoder` is used to read ABI and bytecode from the `combined.json` file. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ConctractEncoder` is used to read the ABI and bytecode from the `combined.json` file. 
```

    estimate_gas = zk_web3.zksync.eth_estimate_gas(create_contract.tx)
    print(f"Fee for transaction is: {Web3.from_wei(estimate_gas * gas_price, 'ether')} ETH")

    # Convert transaction to EIP-712 format
    tx_712 = create_contract.tx712(estimate_gas)

    # Sign message
    signed_message = signer.sign_typed_data(tx_712.to_eip712_struct())

    # Encode signed message
    msg = tx_712.encode(signed_message)

    # Deploy contract
    tx_hash = zk_web3.zksync.send_raw_transaction(msg)

    # Wait for deployment contract transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )

    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")
    contract_address = tx_receipt["contractAddress"]

    print(f"Deployed contract address: {contract_address}")

    # Return the contract deployed address
    return contract_address

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

>     # Get account object by providing from private key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Get account object by providing private key
```

    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/storage/build/combined.json")

    # Perform contract deployment
    deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path)

```

> ### Deploy a contract with constructor and interact with it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deploy a contract with constructor and interact with it
```

):
    """Interact with deployed smart contract on zkSync network

    :param zk_web3:
        Instance of ZkSyncBuilder that interacts with zkSync network

    :param account:
        From which account the deployment contract tx will be made

    :param compiled_contract:
        Compiled contract source.

    :param contract_address:
        Contract address on zkSync network
    """
    # Get contract ABI and bytecode information
    incrementer_contract = ContractEncoder.from_json(zk_web3, compiled_contract)[0]

    # Execute Get method on smart contract
    value = incrementer_contract.contract.functions.get().call(
        {
            "from": account.address,
            "to": contract_address
        })
    print(f"Value: {value}")

    gas_price = zk_web3.zksync.gas_price

    # Get nonce of ETH address on zkSync network
    nonce = zk_web3.zksync.get_transaction_count(account.address, EthBlockParams.LATEST.value)

    # Execute increment method on smart contract
    tx = incrementer_contract.contract.functions.increment().build_transaction({
        "nonce": nonce,
        "from": account.address,

>         "maxPriorityFeePerGas": 1000000,

Reviewer 2: can you explain this a little bit more? if maxFee is set to be the current gas price - then this doesn't have much effect, right?

Author: Every transaction on L2 has` maxFeePerGas: gasPrice`. It's important that  gas price must be higher than: `base fee + maxPriorityFeePerGas`. Gas price on L2 is 250.000.000 which is high enough and all unused gas is return to the user.

        {
            "from": account.address,
            "to": contract_address
        })
    print(f"Value after increment: {value}")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    # PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"
    PROVIDER = "http://127.0.0.1:3050"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/incrementer/build/combined.json")

    # Set constructor arguments
    constructor_arguments = {"_incrementer": 2}

    # Perform contract deployment
    contract_address = deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path, constructor_arguments)

    # alternative way specifying constructor arguments using args
    # constructor_arguments = tuple([2])
    # change 55 line of code with following:
    # encoded_constructor = contract_encoder.encode_constructor(*constructor_args)

    execute(zk_web3, account, contract_path, contract_address)

```

> ### Deploy a contract with dependency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deploy a contract with dependency
```

> 

Author: The general explanation about contracts and links to their source code is placed [here](https://github.com/matter-labs/zksync-web-era-docs/pull/498/files#diff-afe3abc20b265976f73f062bbe9b9bc69da0df1bf09f1aff0e4902787f292d75R503)

from zksync2.signer.eth_signer import PrivateKeyEthSigner
from zksync2.transaction.transaction_builders import TxCreateContract

def generate_random_salt() -> bytes:
    return os.urandom(32)

def deploy_contract(
        zk_web3: Web3, account: LocalAccount, compiled_contract: Path
):
    """Deploy compiled contract with dependency on zkSync network using create() opcode

    :param zk_web3:
        Instance of ZkSyncBuilder that interacts with zkSync network

    :param account:
        From which account the deployment contract tx will be made

    :param compiled_contract:
        Compiled contract source.

    :return:
        Address of deployed contract.
    """
    # Get chain id of zkSync network
    chain_id = zk_web3.zksync.chain_id

    # Signer is used to generate signature of provided transaction
    signer = PrivateKeyEthSigner(account, chain_id)

    # Get nonce of ETH address on zkSync network
    nonce = zk_web3.zksync.get_transaction_count(
        account.address, EthBlockParams.PENDING.value
    )

    # Deployment of same smart contract (same bytecode) without salt cannot be done twice
    # Remove salt if you want to deploy contract only once

>     random_salt = generate_random_salt()

Reviewer 2: AFAIK 'salt' is only used in 'create2'. In 'create', we should be generating the address based on the account's deployment nonce, that would automatically change.

Author: You are right. It's copy paste error.

Author: Salt is removed from examples that use create method to deploy contracts

    # Wait for deployment contract transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )

    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")
    contract_address = tx_receipt["contractAddress"]
    print(f"contract address: {contract_address}")

    # Check does precompute address match with deployed address
    if precomputed_address.lower() != contract_address.lower():
        raise RuntimeError("Precomputed contract address does now match with deployed contract address")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/demo/build/combined.json")

    # Perform contract deployment
    deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path)

```

> ### Deploy a smart contract using the `create2` method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deploy a smart contract using the `create2` method
```

    # Wait for deployment contract transaction to be included in a block
    tx_receipt = zk_web3.zksync.wait_for_transaction_receipt(
        tx_hash, timeout=240, poll_latency=0.5
    )

    print(f"Tx status: {tx_receipt['status']}")
    contract_address = tx_receipt["contractAddress"]
    print(f"contract address: {contract_address}")

    # Check does precompute address match with deployed address
    if precomputed_address.lower() != contract_address.lower():
        raise RuntimeError("Precomputed contract address does now match with deployed contract address")

    return contract_address

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # Set a provider
    PROVIDER = "https://zksync2-testnet.zksync.dev"

    # Byte-format private key
    PRIVATE_KEY = bytes.fromhex(os.environ.get("PRIVATE_KEY"))

    # Connect to zkSync network
    zk_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build(PROVIDER)

    # Get account object by providing from private key
    account: LocalAccount = Account.from_key(PRIVATE_KEY)

    # Provide a compiled JSON source contract
    contract_path = Path("solidity/storage/build/combined.json")

    # Perform contract deployment
    deploy_contract(zk_web3, account, contract_path)

```

> ### Deploy a smart contract with dependency using create2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Deploy a smart contract with dependency using create2
```
